README.md, before:

# Speedtest

Having recently moved into a new location, my current setup includes a separate router. 
The Belkin router is a bit outdated so I'm testing average speeds throughout the house using a quick [Python script](speedtest.py) that calls [ookla's speedtest executable](https://www.speedtest.net/apps/desktop) to run speed tests. 



## Data Collection

The script is run with no arguments - you're prompted for information instead:

```bash
$ python speedtest.py
Make sure to git pull before proceeding.

Enter room name: living room
Enter router location: hallway upstairs
Loop 1: waiting for 124 secs...
```

A warning lets you know to do a `git pull` before proceeding, i.e.:

```bash
$ git pull origin master
```

You'll need to input string fields with consistent names for where you're conducting the test and where the router is located (if you vary this location for testing). The script will automagically extract the machine name and info via a subprocess to pass a wmic command, see line 105 for details.

The script can be customized of course, but as is, it doesn't accept different number of tests or wait times. The default is 10 tests and a random wait time between test from 10 seconds to 5 minutes. This can be changed at line 131 or a revision can be made to include arguments passed or more questions. 

```python
def collect_info(iters=10, mins=5):
    """Perform iters speed tests with up to mins mins of wait 
    time between them and collect results.
    """
```

The data collected is a JSON file with the following fields - here as an example run with only two tests (two iterations of `collect_info` above):

```
{
    "test": 37,
    "day": "2020-06-23",
    "location": "lower west",
    "computer": "HP ProBook 450 G5",
    "router_location": "hallway upstairs",
    "data": {
        "time": [
            "14:29:51",
            "14:31:49"
        ],
        "jitter": [
            1.518,
            1.544
        ],
        "latency": [
            9.971,
            10.742
        ],
        "download": [
            86.167693,
            55.747131
        ],
        "upload": [
            4.570244,
            7.407206
        ]
    }
}
```

## Data Wrangling and Visualization


With a few custom data wrangling and plotting functions (see [custom module](custom_module.py)) I can get a sense of the variation in download speeds (most of my concern). [This notebook](plot_speedtest.ipynb) captures some of this work.

I wrangle the data into this format, where the key `data` is the JSON collected during the script run:

<img src="img/dataframe_sample.PNG" width="400" height="300"/>

I can plot a single run of the script and plot some details about the speeds given each test:

<img src="img/plot_single.PNG" width="800" height="400"/>

Since this is too much detail for a broader understanding of variation - I can use heatmaps or boxplots and show slices of the data by location

Commit message:

Fix blurb on Pandas df

README.md, after:

# Speedtest

Having recently moved into a new location, my current setup includes a separate router. 
The Belkin router is a bit outdated so I'm testing average speeds throughout the house using a quick [Python script](speedtest.py) that calls [ookla's speedtest executable](https://www.speedtest.net/apps/desktop) to run speed tests. 

## Data Collection

The script is run with no arguments - you're prompted for information instead:

```bash
$ python speedtest.py
Make sure to git pull before proceeding.

Enter room name: living room
Enter router location: hallway upstairs
Loop 1: waiting for 124 secs...
```

A warning lets you know to do a `git pull` before proceeding, i.e.:

```bash
$ git pull origin master
```

You'll need to input string fields with consistent names for where you're conducting the test and where the router is located (if you vary this location for testing). The script will automagically extract the machine name and info via a subprocess to pass a wmic command, see line 105 for details.

The script can be customized of course, but as is, it doesn't accept different number of tests or wait times. The default is 10 tests and a random wait time between test from 10 seconds to 5 minutes. This can be changed at line 131 or a revision can be made to include arguments passed or more questions. 

```python
def collect_info(iters=10, mins=5):
    """Perform iters speed tests with up to mins mins of wait 
    time between them and collect results.
    """
```

The data collected is a JSON file with the following fields - here as an example run with only two tests (two iterations of `collect_info` above):

```
{
    "test": 37,
    "day": "2020-06-23",
    "location": "lower west",
    "computer": "HP ProBook 450 G5",
    "router_location": "hallway upstairs",
    "data": {
        "time": [
            "14:29:51",
            "14:31:49"
        ],
        "jitter": [
            1.518,
            1.544
        ],
        "latency": [
            9.971,
            10.742
        ],
        "download": [
            86.167693,
            55.747131
        ],
        "upload": [
            4.570244,
            7.407206
        ]
    }
}
```

## Data Wrangling and Visualization


With a few custom data wrangling and plotting functions (see [custom module](custom_module.py)) I can get a sense of the variation in download speeds (most of my concern). [This notebook](plot_speedtest.ipynb) captures some of this work.

The JSON can be brought in for analysis as a Pandas DataFrame, which is flexible enough to accommodate nested dict structures (i.e. the "data"):

<img src="img/dataframe_sample.PNG" width="400" height="300"/>

I can plot a single run of the script and plot some details about the speeds given each test:

<img src="img/plot_single.PNG" width="800" height="400"/>

Since this is too much detail for a broader understanding of variation - I can use heatmaps or boxplots and show slices of the data by location
